README.md, before:

# API for USDA Child Nutrition Database
The USDA Child Nutrition Database (CND) can be a difficult thing to navigate especially if you're not using Access. This provides a self hosted method of getting information from the database through a simple API.

Currently using CN20-7 database. Repo will be updated to CN21 once made available by the USDA.

*Full Documentation coming soon*

## Setup

### Import CND

A SQL version of the CND is located in vendor/releases. A class is available to import all of the data into their respective tables. 

`ImportRelease.perform`

*Note: the CND does include alcoholic beverages. By default, the import class will destroy those items. An option will eventually be available to toggle that functionality*

### Creating Users

Devise is used for user authentication. From the rails console, run:

`User.create(email: "email@example.com", password: "password", password_confirmation: "password")`

All of those fields are required, since the system is read-only from the API, no roles are necessary. 

## Documentation

### Obtaining an authentication token

One session is permitted per user at a time. To sign in:

`POST: /api/1/sessions?user[email]=email@example.com&user[password]=password`

This will return:

```
{
  user_id: 1,
  token: s0m3hAShk3yliKethis
}
```
*As you can tell, this isn't very secure. Session keys will be moving to the headers instead of route params very very soon.*

### Authenticating Requests

On each request, pass an 'Authentication' header with your token and user_id. Here's an example if you're using HTTParty in another Ruby project. 

```
class YourApiClass
  include HTTParty
  base_uri "https://api.example.com"
  
  def get_recipes
    token = "my_token"
    user_id = 1
    self.class.get("/api/1/recipes", query: query, headers: {"Authorization" => "Token token=\"#{token}\", user_id=\"#{user_id}\""})
  end
end
```

You are, of course, free to use whatever you want to make this request. 

### Reading the Recipes
Now for the good stuff.

`GET: /api/1/recipes`

**Options (All optional)**

`page` *Default: 0*

`per_page` *Default: 25*

**A quick gotcha**

You'll likely have more results than just the 25 requested (assuming the default). This is because you're requesting 25 **recipes** but recipes are pretty futile if you don't also have the weights. So if you have 3 weights for each recipe, you're actually going to get 75 results, but still 25 recipes. For this reason, the id we return in the response is a combination of the CND ID and the weight (separated by a hyphen). To get the true CND ID, that's under "cnd_code".

There are better ways to handle this and it will most likely be updated in the 2nd version, but it's not a priority at the moment. 

## Forking
This is far from complete and would love any extra code you'd like to add :)

For LunchTray's purposes, we were only concerned with the Recipes. The good news, the Import jobs adds everything to your Rails DB. So adding other controllers literally only requires adding the controllers. The models should be good to go.

## To-Do List
1. Move login info to the headers
2. Add Rspec Tests
3. A bunch of refactoring
4. Add controllers for other models
5. Add interface for managing users

## Hosted Version

LunchTray hosts our own version of this. If you would like to use that instead of self-hosting email me: noah (at) getlunchtray (dot) com and I'm sure we can work something out.

Commit message:

Adds notes on naming decisions

README.md, after:

# API for USDA Child Nutrition Database
The USDA Child Nutrition Database (CND) can be a difficult thing to navigate especially if you're not using Access. This provides a self hosted method of getting information from the database through a simple API.

Currently using CN20-7 database. Repo will be updated to CN21 once made available by the USDA.

As far as the names of the tables and fields, they're a direct copy from the CND. Despite despising every naming decision in this database, I think this makes the most sense for transfering information correctly from the USDA. However, for the most part, this uses a different naming structure for the API itself. 

## Setup

### Import CND

A SQL version of the CND is located in vendor/releases. A class is available to import all of the data into their respective tables. 

`ImportRelease.perform`

*Note: the CND does include alcoholic beverages. By default, the import class will destroy those items. An option will eventually be available to toggle that functionality*

### Creating Users

Devise is used for user authentication. From the rails console, run:

`User.create(email: "email@example.com", password: "password", password_confirmation: "password")`

All of those fields are required, since the system is read-only from the API, no roles are necessary. 

## Documentation

### Obtaining an authentication token

One session is permitted per user at a time. To sign in:

`POST: /api/1/sessions?user[email]=email@example.com&user[password]=password`

This will return:

```
{
  user_id: 1,
  token: s0m3hAShk3yliKethis
}
```
*As you can tell, this isn't very secure. Session keys will be moving to the headers instead of route params very very soon.*

### Authenticating Requests

On each request, pass an 'Authentication' header with your token and user_id. Here's an example if you're using HTTParty in another Ruby project. 

```
class YourApiClass
  include HTTParty
  base_uri "https://api.example.com"
  
  def get_recipes
    token = "my_token"
    user_id = 1
    self.class.get("/api/1/recipes", query: query, headers: {"Authorization" => "Token token=\"#{token}\", user_id=\"#{user_id}\""})
  end
end
```

You are, of course, free to use whatever you want to make this request. 

### Reading the Recipes
Now for the good stuff.

`GET: /api/1/recipes`

**Options (All optional)**

`page` *Default: 0*

`per_page` *Default: 25*

**A quick gotcha**

You'll likely have more results than just the 25 requested (assuming the default). This is because you're requesting 25 **recipes** but recipes are pretty futile if you don't also have the weights. So if you have 3 weights for each recipe, you're actually going to get 75 results, but still 25 recipes. For this reason, the id we return in the response is a combination of the CND ID and the weight (separated by a hyphen). To get the true CND ID, that's under "cnd_code".

There are better ways to handle this and it will most likely be updated in the 2nd version, but it's not a priority at the moment. 

## Forking
This is far from complete and would love any extra code you'd like to add :)

For LunchTray's purposes, we were only concerned with the Recipes. The good news, the Import jobs adds everything to your Rails DB. So adding other controllers literally only requires adding the controllers. The models should be good to go.

## To-Do List
1. Move login info to the headers
2. Add Rspec Tests
3. A bunch of refactoring
4. Add controllers for other models
5. Add interface for managing users

## Hosted Version

LunchTray hosts our own version of this. If you would like to use that instead of self-hosting email me: noah (at) getlunchtray (dot) com and I'm sure we can work something out.
